# <a href='https://artideagenerator.netlify.app'>Art Idea Generator</a>
Link to webpage: <a href='https://artideagenerator.netlify.app'>artideagenerator.netlify.app</a>
### The purpose of this app was to help inspire creative thinking for human-made art using random color generation and AI prompts.
It uses ChatGPT to generate an idea for an artwork based on selected categories/interests, from a default list of choices and/or the user's input.
It also generates a random color (by choosing 3 random values [0,255] for (red, green, blue)), as well as corresponding colors based on color theory. <br><br>
Given a random (tailored to your interests) art prompt and random (but matching) colors, you can come up with a unique idea for your next artwork.
These are meant to stimulate your creative brain to create something beautiful from randomness.<br><br>
It uses artificial intelligence text generation (from OpenAI api) and color palette generation (from thecolorapi.com). The available color schemes are monochromatic, analogous, complementary, near complementary (analogous-complementary), and triadic. Additionally, when you hover over a color, you can see its hex code, and when you click, it gets copied to your clipboard for easy color-picking when digital painting. Of course there are more robust color palette generators, such as color.adobe.com, but this generates a completely random starting color.<br><br>
For example, if you select 'Nature' and 'Buildings', it might generate a response like 'Create an artwork where a log cabin is surrounded by a lush forest on a cliff...' and say the random color generated is a reddish-orange. You might want to then create a painting depicting this scene during sunset using the analogous color scheme of red, orange, yellow, pink, and purple.<br><br>
Note: This web app does NOT use artificial intelligence for the purpose of ai image generation, which is currently unethical due to theft. Rather, it is using ai to spur human imagination to create real works of art.
